Dynamic Service Discovery
A dynamic directory that enables client side load balancing and smart routing

Circuit Breakers
Microservice fault tolerance with a monitoring dashboard

Configuration Server
Dynamic, centralized configuration management for your decentralized applications

API Gateway
Single entry point for API consumers (browsers, devices, other APIs)

Distributed Tracing
Automated application instrumentation and operational visibility for distributed systems

Security
Login/Signup
Authentication
Authorization

OAuth2
Support for single sign on, token relay and token exchange

Consumer-Driven Contracts
Service evolution patterns to support both HTTP based and message based APIs

Distributed/versioned configuration
Service registration and discovery
Routing
Service-to-service calls
Load balancing
Circuit Breakers
Global locks
Leadership election and cluster state
Distributed messaging
Registry
Health checks

Task
Pipelines
Connectors
Function
Cluster
Transport
Metrics
Broker
CLI
Stream
Monitoring
Logging
Message Bus

Distributed transaction

Contract
HTTP Requests validation

Observability
Proxy

Latency and Fault Tolerance for Distributed Systems
Hystrix is a latency and fault tolerance library designed to isolate points of access to remote systems, services and 3rd party libraries, stop cascading failure and enable resilience in complex distributed systems where failure is inevitable.

Pilot provides service discovery for the Envoy sidecars, traffic management capabilities for intelligent routing (e.g., A/B tests, canary deployments, etc.), and resiliency (timeouts, retries, circuit breakers, etc.).

Citadel provides strong service-to-service and end-user authentication with built-in identity and credential management. You can use Citadel to upgrade unencrypted traffic in the service mesh. Using Citadel, operators can enforce policies based on service identity rather than on network controls. Starting from release 0.5, you can use Istio’s authorization feature to control who can access your services.

Dashboard


discovery, load balancing, failure recovery, metrics, and monitoring
A/B testing, canary releases, rate limiting, access control, and end-to-end authentication


The term service mesh is used to describe the network of microservices that make up such applications and the interactions between them. As a service mesh grows in size and complexity, it can become harder to understand and manage. Its requirements can include discovery, load balancing, failure recovery, metrics, and monitoring. A service mesh also often has more complex operational requirements, like A/B testing, canary releases, rate limiting, access control, and end-to-end authentication.

Automatic load balancing for HTTP, gRPC, WebSocket, and TCP traffic.
Fine-grained control of traffic behavior with rich routing rules, retries, failovers, and fault injection.
A pluggable policy layer and configuration API supporting access controls, rate limits and quotas.
Automatic metrics, logs, and traces for all traffic within a cluster, including cluster ingress and egress.
Secure service-to-service communication in a cluster with strong identity-based authentication and authorization.
